For this lesson.
We are going to install the software you need to write your code.
And remember, Python is a language like English or Spanish, so you can write it anywhere in a notebook,
on a whiteboard, on a computer, on a wall.
And it's always going to be the same language in the same way.
There is a wide variety of applications for writing Python code, and each one offers advantages and
disadvantages.
We call these applications Ides, which stands for Integrated Development Environment.
So these applications are virtual environments that integrate all of Python's functionalities so that
you can develop code in them.
Because actually, if you want, you can write your code in a simple notepad and it would still be Python.
But a good idea does things like assisting you with code structure, helping you to detect, resolve
and debug errors, running simulations and more.
In other words, a good idea makes your life as a programmer much easier, so it's time to choose one.
We have two and there are so many options.
I don't want to decide for you, but I am going to give you my recommendation on which idea to use to
learn Python in this course, since it is also the one we are going to be using throughout the course
on screen and it's called PY charm.
We use it because it's powerful.
It's interface is simple, it's help system is very clear and complete and well because it's the one
we actually have to use in real life.
But before you install PI charm, you need to install Python on your computer.
I'll leave you and Federico as hands who will guide you throughout this process.
So let's go and do that.
Thank you.
Fail.
And that's exactly what we're going to do.
We're going to install both Python and parts on your computer and we're going to do it all together
so there won't be any problems.
The first thing you're going to do is go to the python dot org site where you have all the documentation,
the software and much more.
It's the official Python site.
Of course, at the time you log in, it may look a little different than it does in my case.
This is always being updated, so don't worry.
But you will surely find the link that says download in which you will find the system recognizes your
operating system.
In my case, Windows.
And here I have the newest, most current version that exists on Python so far.
You may see a newer version.
So let's click here to start the download which is already being done on my system.
What I do is click here to bring up the runner.
We click on Run and I've got some options here.
The first thing we're going to do in this window is make sure that the ADD Python 3.1 checkbox is checked
to the path.
So we're going to click here and then install now and we're going to then start installing it.
So as you can see, it's done very quickly.
It takes practically nothing.
And in a couple of seconds, we already have all the code and all the libraries and all the stuff we
need so that a computer can understand the Python language.
So a few seconds more and we have it ready.
And so we get to this window that tells us that the installation has been successful.
It may appear below in this blank space here, a warning that allows you to choose if you want to disable
path length limit.
If that appears, please enable it and then you are ready to hit finish here and now I've installed
Python on my computer.
If you are a mac user, don't worry.
The process will be quite similar to this one.
Quite intuitive to follow and you won't have any complications.
If you do have any questions, please leave them for me in the Q&A area.
So now we're going to install Page.
We're going to go to the Google Page to search for it here.
Note that we are going to do it now is install the software or idea that we are going to use throughout
the program as an interface to program with Python.
Here you simply search for pie charm and surely the first option that will appear is this python the
python idea for developers.
You can come here or directly to download page and it will take us to the official page.
Our site is coming here.
I'll also leave this link for you in the lecture resources if you want to access it directly from there.
And hey, we have two options to install either the professional version or the community version.
We're going to choose the community, which, on the one hand is free and has everything we need to
work with.
Python, a high level professional, has some more features it has cost.
You can try it for free and see if it works for you.
But to start working with Python and start learning it with the community, you will be more than satisfied.
A few more things on this site before we move on to what's next.
You can see the system requirements here.
Must meet all these for Pi Chung to work well on your computer.
The installation instructions, which is basically download it and run it and nothing else.
So let's go here to download and here it starts to install the parts of installation run on my computer
and once it's done downloading we can click on the installer.
So this is going to start the installer running.
We actually choose run and this is going to be pretty intuitive and easy to follow.
We choose next.
Then we leave the default path or choose another one if you want.
I recommend to leave this one.
So we go to next.
And here the only thing we cannot if we want, is the desktop icon.
We click here and nothing else.
The rest check it.
But I would leave it as it is.
We do next then install.
And now?
Yes.
In a few minutes we have patch installed and once this software has been installed on your computer,
this window appears confirming it.
So you can click here to run it now.
But let's show you how to open it.
It's very simple.
We do finish and then now you can look for the icon on your desktop or come to the Windows System icon
you will find here.
PY From Community Edition, we click on it and it will open for the first time as we as we run this
program the first time it will ask as if we were going to import the py settings.
We're going to leave it in.
Do not import.
That opens as it comes by threefold.
And this would be the welcome screen where I'm going to change something before we continue, which
is going to be the customize and personalize.
So here you can choose what kind of Internet interface you want in terms of color scheme and dark color
is perhaps the nicest because it's dark to lose your eyes, to be relaxed and not disturbed by the guy.
Irish colors.
We also have this combination which is whiter, brighter.
But it may not be the most pleasant to work with at night especially.
But during the course I'm going to use this high contrast wall.
While it's not the nicest of them all, but because it's quite garish, I think it's the one that is
the best contrast to show you all the functions in text on the screen as I work on my computer.
So I recommend dhokla, but you can choose any option you like.
So here you can increase the font size of our software, not the text of the code.
We will see that later.
But if I set, for example, 18 this enlarge the whole size in which you can see the letters.
I think this is a bit too much.
I'm going to leave it at 14 for my taste.
It's going to be fine and you have more options here.
But with this to start with, it's going to be fine.
We can go to projects.
Then here you are going to choose if you're going to work with a new project or if you are going to
see a project that you've already started.
I'm going to show you how to create a new project in this lecture so you'll be able to start in the
next lecture.
So we click on the plus, and then when we come to this, the first screen, which is the one you'll
see whenever you want to create a new project.
When a project is going to have a lot of Python files because you can create a lot of code which interacts
with each other and then you decide where you're going to save that project.
By default here, it gives you a path.
I'm going to work with a folder that I'm going to create on my desktop directly to work much more comfortably
there.
So we open my computer.
We're going to go to desktop and this is where I'm going to create my folder.
Of course I'm going to name it because right now my photo doesn't exist yet.
We do it with the backslash and we're going to name it Python.
Nothing more than that.
You can leave the rest as it is to start with.
You learn later what each of these options is for.
But for starters, we're good to go.
So we're going to click Create and this is then we're going to take it to the first run of our software.
You may get a message from Windows Defender at this point that say something like this regarding your
computer security.
You can click directly on fix and that will resolve it.
It's fine.
It doesn't appear to me because I have already installed the software before, like many softwares.
This one also starts with the tip of the day.
It's not really something I pay much interest to, so I'm going to ask you to stop showing me these
tips and clothes and move on to running our first instance of PI.
So here we are in Patch on the proper pie chart.
And to maximize it.
And I'm going to ask you not to panic if it looks too complex what you're seeing.
We're going to get to know this interface step by step as the course progresses.
We're going to go from simple to complex, and you're going to master it without any fear.
We're going to close this file that we have here that's called Main, which is a class that is generated
by default.
So you'll see this a little bit less overloaded.
Our interface has a column here where we're going to be looking at some options.
This can be hidden or shown again because it's not the core of our work.
Everything important is going to happen in this larger area here, which is where we're going to write
our code.
The rest of the tools for working on our code.
So we're going to concentrate on this area primarily.
We're going to learn what's here in the menu bar.
We're going to learn some tools here that are very important.
But for now, we're just going to stick with what we've opened in pie chart and we're going to create
our first file inside the project that we've named Python, which is the folder that I created, remember.
And here it is.
So if I right click here, I have the option to choose new file.
If I choose a new file here, I have to name it and I can name it.
For example, first project.
But I'll show you what's going to happen when I hit Accept here with Enter, it's going to ask me to
choose what kind of language it is that I want to have in this file.
And I want it to be Python so I can come here and choose Python and then start working here.
So I have that option and I have to.
I have my first choice here, open matching files in py charm and then python.
But we're going to make it easier so you don't get too complicated.
We're actually going to come to python right click new file.
We could choose Python file here and this would say also save as that step it opens the Python file
directly.
But if we put file as just now and I want to put first project so it doesn't ask me later what kind
of file I want, I just put dot p y by putting it this way.
I'm already telling it that I want to work with Python language.
We hit enter and here is our first project created with the first line ready and the cursor blinking
for me to start typing.
I looking forward to it.
And the next lecture we're going to start writing code.
So thank you very much.
And now we'll see you in the next lecture.